# Rope_in_gravitational_field_simulation
This project creates a realistic physics simulation of a rope. 
The code can be modified to create slow motions or high resolution videos.
In this simulation each point of the rope interacts only with its nearest points.

## How to run a simulation
Run, in order, the tree .wl files. Then, join the videos.

### Files
In the first file it possible to modify the physical scenario, for example parameters, masses, initial conditions (position and velocities) non-conservative potential and other variables.
The Euler-Lagrange equations are automatically calculated and solved. The solutions are saved into a "solutionsLightString.mx" file.

In the second file it possible to modify the frames, for example select the slow motion frames.
Frames are generated and saved into a "dataLightString.mx" file.

In the third file it possible to modify outupt options, for example frame rate and the number of avi files in which the simulation is splitted. (Long simulations are splitted into many avi files to avoid memory overloads and crashes).
avi videos are generated.

### Join the videos
To join multiple .avi files, create a "mylist.txt" with file names, for example:
```file 'simulation001.avi'
file 'simulation002.avi'
file 'simulation003.avi'
file 'simulation004.avi'
...
...
...
```
(the "simulationNNN.avi" files are generated by the third .wl file)

Then, in the linux terminal
`ffmpeg -f concat -i mylist.txt -c copy output.avi`

To add audio to the avi file 
`ffmpeg -i output.avi -i ../audio/FlightofTheBumblebee.wav \
-shortest -c:v copy -c:a aac video.avi`

Examples of such videos are  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4IMdNv5GrJk  
https://www.youtube.com/shorts/YaYGoO1yxlA
